Well there really aren't going to be that many lights in the scene.
There's going to be the main sunlight coming down through the hole in the ceiling.
And then my thought is that there's just one other light in this scene and it's this guy right here
at the top of the mech what we need to do is insert a light into this spotlight and then parent it to
the light so as we move it around it also moves the actual spotlight.
So I want to select that light.
I can't right now because I've turned off or I've restricted it.
I should say but if I go come over here to the outliner and if I scroll down in the armature here if
I go all the way down here's the light here and I'm going to turn on the Select ability.
So now I can select it.
So I'm going to zoom into it here and we want to place a light in here somewhere.
Actually what I can do is use I can I bet I can go to face mode here and select this loop of faces right
here and maybe I can snap the cursor to that and that's where we can put our light.
So I'll press shift as cursor to selected and then I'll come out of there back into object mode.
And now if I were to create a light a spotlight it would theoretically pop in right there.
Here it is hit Z for wireframe.
And what I should do is while I'm moving this around I should turn off the autokey because if I rotate
this now it's going to generate a key.
Here let me show you what I mean if I hit r.
You can see right here it says auto keying on.
So I'm going to go ahead and turn off auto autokey for now and I'm going to press R X and negative 90
and that will rotate it up like that.
So there is our spotlight.
I kind of want the cone angle to be a little bit smaller so under size I'm going to click and drag and
make the spotlight kind of like that.
I think that'll work we'll see.
Zoom in again and I think now what we can do is actually parent the light to the light object.
Let me rename this to MC Lyte and this spotlight here is the sunlight isn't it.
So I'll name that.
So if I take this light and shift select the spot light object and press control P And We can choose
either object or keep transform I'll just choose object here and now if we play it let me zoom out here
if we play our animation you can see that the light comes along with it.
All right so now we can begin thinking about lighting the scene one of the things I'm going to do is
go back through.
Let me go back to my camera view and go out of wireframe here.
Well now that that's parroted we've got the two lights in our scene.
I can bring back that other light I believe it's here.
Yeah.
So here it is.
We've got our two lights in the scene.
We begin we can begin working with this.
But the problem is going to be that this light won't be able to shine through this object here.
In fact I think this lens here is going to have to be its own object.
Let's see if we can do that.
I'm going to go back to the beginning of the scene here.
And I think because here let me show you why I think that if we go to the magic panel over here and
we scroll down and under re visibility I need to be able to turn off shadow for the light to shine through
this.
And if I turn off shadow for the whole object then it'll shine through the whole object.
I need it to just shine through the lens.
So what I'm thinking here is I need to actually make this lends its own separate object.
So I'm going to select this piece and I want to separate it out from the main part of the light.
I'll separate that and then I'll come back here de-select everything and Slyke that one thing and I'll
call this light lens and this light lens is going to need to be printed to this light piece here so
I'll select the lens shift select that light housing and control P and object keep transform.
So now we should have an individual object here that we can turn off the shadows and it should follow
along with the rest of the objects since it's been parenting.
Now to that object.
Let's go ahead and take a look at the whole thing and just make sure it works like we want it to.
I'll go to the camera view here.
And let's just play it through make sure everything works like we want it to
yeah.
That looks pretty good it looks like the spotlight is following.
So it's looking around.
And also the lens is coming along with it.
Good.
So now I'm going to come over here and just at this point at this I'm going to do at this point here
somewhere around in here I want to take a look at my scene.
I want to look at it through the render view here.
So I'm going to save and I'll change this from solid to rendered viewport shading.
So now as it begins to render you can kind of see the volumetric lights beginning to happen here.
So I'm beginning to see the light from the ceiling there that cone of light from the ceiling.
And here we've got the cone of light from the spotlight.
So a couple of things I think what I'd like to do is make the size of the light a little bigger inside
the spot so it isn't coming from a single point.
So I'm just going to click and drag this up a bit see how I'll take it up to like point five and let's
see how this works.
And once again sorry about the sound of the fan in my computer but it has to work a bit to render these
out.
Well it looks like that's a bit too much it's too big.
Coming out of the light I'll just split the difference here.
Maybe take it down to a point to five and we go I think that's pretty good.
And lastly I think what I want to do is change the color of the light as well.
So maybe a blue or a color.
Now if we wanted to try and make the scene a little bit brighter in the in the background we could also
come in here and increase the ambient occlusion a bit more.
I'll try point 0 3 see how that works.
You can see it brightens it up just a little bit.